GitHub Docs defined version control system (VCS) as a system that "tracks history of changes as people and teams collaborate on projects together." This system allows developers to review the project history and know which changes were made, by who, when, and why (as developers are instructed to include messages before submitting their work).

Version control system brings multiple benefits to the developing world such as: each team member have their own copy of the project, and at the same time the project history, where they can see the timeline of their changes, the progression of the project and much more. This ability helps developers understand other teammates codes and changes, and track mistakes when debugging code.

VS Code has a built-in extension that allows developers to join, create or clone repositories from GitHub. Using the built-in extension makes committing and pushing your work very easy, however, you also have the possibility to use the terminal window to perform the same tasks and more. This extension also informs which file and where a new change has been made to the file and you can track the difference between the last pushed document to the one being worked currently.

GitHub has two main tools for collaborative development: "shared repository" and "fork and pull". Shared repository includes a three tier permission structure: contributors with read, write or administrator access. GitHub found a way to efficiently manage projects by using fork and pull: anyone that can view the project can request a fork, which is a copy of a project. The developer then can implement changes, then the files pushed are either kept separate or is surfaced back to the original project through a pull request. This allows the administrators or maintainers to review the suggested changes before they are merged.

To push a document to your repository all you need is to open the terminal window and type: 'git add .' then 'git commit -m "(brief description of the changes here)" and finally "git push". It is as simple as that.